# Why this book?{#why-do-people-hate-new-technologies-bitcoin}

Understanding Bitcoin is quite a challenge. You might be completely unfamiliar with it. You might be heavily invested, following the news for years, already became completely addicted, but still the whole thing feels like a big mess. Or you feel like you understand it, but you are lacking of practical knowledge. If you fell into any of the these categories, we believe this book is the best investment for your time.  

If you let us guide you through the Blockchain world we will not only armor you with skills those are necessary to win any [/r/Bitcoin](http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/) arguments, but also enable you to wisely choose among the countless developer opportunities those come to your way daily. Furthermore you will also be able to make those ideas reality. And in general, what better way is there to understand something, but coding it?  

But I warn you! If you decide to read further, there is no going back anymore. All your friends and family will look at you like a wierdo, and you cannot blame them.

> Because it feels like one giant scam. What if I came up to you and said 'hey look, I have this digital file and I'm saying it's worth $1000, oh and just a few years ago I bought it for $0.01, but I didn't do anything with it since then, it's just more valuable now'.
And you ask, okay what is it? Well, it's this file that's on everyone's computers, but it's your money. And it's generated by people wasting computing power to secure the network, this is necessary because it's not centralized. That is, it's not actually ran by a company.  
Oh okay, and what can you do with it? 'Well you can pay people with it, about 0.1% of merchants accept it at the moment'.  
Oh okay... and how do you use it? 'well here's a hundred pages on how to keep your wallet secure' etc etc.  
It's just almost offensive to say this to anyone and ask them to actually pay you hundreds of dollars for such a coin. It sounds like a giant scam and it sounds as if everyone who's enthusiastic about it is really just trying to pump a stock to get rich quick.  
Given many of us are familiar with multi-level marketing schemes, we immediately say 'nah fuck that, not interested', and are credulous towards people who mock bitcoin. Monkey say monkey do, we mock it, too, without ever having looked into it.  
**Point is, bitcoin is awesome for some deeply philosophical, economical, political, social and business reasons that are far from immediately obvious at first glance.** On the contrary, at first glance it looks like a giant scam. And given the amount of scams we get faced with on an annual basis, our natural reaction is not to give it the consideration it needs to appreciate it.  

*Because of privacy considerations the source of the above quote asked not to be included.*